a lot of you guys will know another
youtuber named Jason fazzino uh Jason I
know each other and some of his videos
respond to content for my channel and
some of my videos respond to his content
is a really interesting contrast between
the two of us in many different ways
politically it otherwise we're
approximately the same age we're not
that far off an age me and Pacino and by
the way he's the only youtuber i'm
scheduled to have a boxing match with so
i know i know he looks impressive in
those photos of him with his shirt off I
know you're thinking I can't possibly
win this boxing match but first and
foremost let's be clear a charity boxing
match is not about winning and it's
about veganism it's about raising money
or where and spoke people having fun so
I don't care if i lose we have a boxing
match totally totally if I was assuming
when we first pose I completely assumed
that I was going to lose but later I
found out how much he bench presses and
the fender his total body weight you
know what I stand a chance you know me
and uh me and Jason it's it's it's a
more of a fair fight than you might
think what I lack in in bulk I might
make up for in height reach and total
body weight and he does not benchpress
all that much Jason so I don't know
we'll see but you know my priority in
life as I've said you guys many times
I've already life is not working out six
hours a day I'm learning Chinese and
I've got a new job lined up I got a lot
of things going on that are more
prepared either getting in shape to to
get never hang with Jason but anyway the
contrast between us you know is
instructive in many ways one of the
issue so I'm you're going to respond to
at least two issues that Jason is kind
of brought up in his videos mean you
could see this publicly and you know
where he cares about the stuff privately
there's this is kind of very subtle
sotto voce anarchist streak in the
background of Jason's videos the whole
time which is enter I think it's because
most of his videos just feature him
jumping into a pool and swimming just be
harmful if occasion etc etc so I mean
one of the issues I think is interesting
is the question of whether or not
leadership is significant at all
politically in vegan is
in the 21st century or for any social
movement of this kind now you know this
is interesting because the analysis of
this issue in social sciences tends to
extremes with an anthropology there are
many many people who glorify so-called
assefa Leslie der ship movements that
apparently or actually have no leader
this is partly a varicose background
partly out of there are many many
communists than within anthropologists
discipline and the reality is that a
cephalus leadership you know movements
that seemingly have no one leader no no
one figurehead no chief or what have you
they're much more common in modern life
than we'd like to admit they are but
they're also much less important than
some of these kind of academic
disciplines make them out to be we used
to have in Toronto every year a
Caribbean festival caribbean cultural
festival Caribbean music festival
Caribbean costumes it was called
caribana and you know this is a huge
festival thousands of thousands of
people were involved because you know
there were just the number of dancers
and singers and musicians and you know
they had food to they would have said of
Jamaican food and then their behavior
the cultures would compete with each
other for who had the best food you at
the boats best music and dancing so you
know a huge number of people were
involved but if you would ask someone
who is the leader of this event which is
probably bigger than any vegan event in
the world maybe I'm wrong but I mean
it's a big big event that happen every
year I don't think anyone could have
named one person I don't think anyone
could have named a you know a group of
five people or what have you this is
effectively a cephalus leadership and
point out to you by contrast whether
you're talking about the military
organized crime in the vast majority of
you know organizations the question of
who made this decision is life and death
serious you know it's you know with your
organized crime or within the military
very often the only question people have
before they obey an order is who did
this order come from who made this
decision they don't want to know why
they made the decision that I'm one of
the factors were who made the decision
oh that's too easy or okay
and then it gets carried out so the
significance of the person who made the
decision can be completely decisive
organized crime the military of CIA or
what have you very often that's the only
thing you can know because all the other
factors are in effect top secret they're
not they can't be shared but then the
opposite extreme you can have large
scale social and political events where
nobody knows who organized nobody cares
and the reason why this example sticks
out of my mind and again in some ways
it's it there may be more successful
than any vegan moving in the world at
this point you know um one year the
event just didn't happen it was one year
where you know because it would happen
at the same time every year on the same
calendar same schedule and there were so
many Americans attending the event sorry
Casey oh no I'm talking about an event
that happened in Canada but there were
so many Americans that had booked hotel
rooms that the hotels were getting
last-minute cancellations people found
out they'd already planned to come and
visit Toronto during this event of
course these are mostly caribbean's
living in the United States we're coming
to this event and so then the media
started to ask questions so what why why
was it cancelled this year what why
didn't happen and only then do you find
out okay who's actually in charge who
leads so when it falls apart you're
right that's that's when you start to
get questions of leadership when there's
a crisis oh now now we need to know
who's a leader so this question to gets
asked I've many many videos talking
about a vegan political movement called
direct action everywhere DXE on this
channel if you just search for the three
letters DX e in the video history of the
channel you get the whole list of my
critiques of DX e DX e one of the things
that makes them dangerous from my
perspective let's let's put a book on
the shot there one of those that make
them dangerous from my perspective is
that they pretend to be a leaderless a
cephalus decentralized movement but
they're not in reality there is
hierarchical as any political movement
can get there is one man and his
girlfriend who are absolutely the
leaders of that movement and they have a
bank account and when you
make donations to that movement it goes
into that banging or they make decisions
and other people are the consequences of
those decisions and when something goes
wrong when they have a scandal then
those decisions get handed up in a
completely centralized hierarchical
fashion so if you ask me in this sort of
anarchist vein how important is the
question of an assess movement a
leaderless movement or how important is
leadership as opposed to having a more
leaderless format you know the reality
is both can work again if you just look
at something like a festival where
nobody knows who's in charge and in some
case nobody even questions it people
just apply they sign up you know
musicians and dancers and crooks it can
be thousands of people and nobody knows
who's in charge and nobody cares right
that really is in the modern world as
close as you get to a genuinely
decentralize the cephalus movement and
it's based on something anarchists care
a lot about it's based on goodwill it's
based on the fact that people go into it
with you know faith they go into a faith
that for what among other things this is
harmless the nobody's going to get hurt
that there are no consequences they
really need to worry about who is
accountable for right now of course I
think if there was a disaster if people
if for example the or the event was so
badly organized that people got killed
you know then suddenly you'll be okay
who's in charge where's the hierarchy
now we look for accountability and we
may create accountability out of what
had been formally ana cephalus
leaderless amorphous a sort of movement
but i think it is tremendously dangerous
and counterproductive to pretend that
you do not have leadership when you do
so in the case of direct action
everywhere people pretend that Wayne's
Young is not the dictator that they
pretend it's decentralized that it's
horizontal is the term they've
completely resolved there's no vertical
element that there's no chain of command
no book come on if wayne song publishes
an opinion piece on his blog or on the
DXE website do you really think that as
the same importance as me or anyone else
or some junior member or publishing of
you know what
sir correct just have a comment coming
here that is on it is dishonest it's
dishonest and it can have damaging
consequences and it's a problem in terms
of accountability and responsibility and
the problem is when you don't admit
you're in charge then you also don't
admit when you're wrong and you don't
change in response to criticism that
points out exactly how you were wrong
and how the leadership s change and also
um you can never replace the head of a
movement when they don't admit they're
the head I am just using head is general
term because I know if you say President
or whatever you know we can use it
whatever term you want now I'll just
mention really quickly so you guys know
I used to work in the publishing
industry non-fiction publishing books
etc there was a famous left-wing book
publisher that was actually based mostly
in Africa so they got a lot of left-wing
guys out of Africa you know a lot of
them understandably you know hate France
or hate England a lot of anti-colonial
anti-western sentiment and they
published a bunch of groovy books of
course some other a lot of their books
were garbage but they were also kind of
famous for finding these voices of
dissent you know sometimes from Africa
or sometimes from America but whatever
and uh you know they had these kind of
pretensions to having equality amongst
all their members but the reality was
there was one guy who was you know who
had devoted his life to this printing
press to this this book publisher so
he'd spent many many years and of course
earned this much money you know if
you're gonna publish those kinds of
books you know you're not in it for the
money and the very first time they had
an election to to choose who was going
to be their leader his employees fired
him in effect they kicked him out and he
he accepted it and he went on and he
founded a difference but you know
political a printing press and I think
it under his new publishing venture I
think he didn't have those democratic
and egalitarian pretensions but the
point is as soon as you admit somebody's
in charge then you can hold them
accountable you can question their
leadership you can say who made this
decision how can we change this policy
and ultimately you could change them so
let's say let's give a hypothetical
example that's not too hypothetical here
let's say that me and mod vegan start of
political foundation that we do the
paper we register it and when we found
it let's say me and mod vegan are the
only members I think in Canada we I
should have a minimum you have to have
five people at the start but okay me and
mod vegan are the dictators of this
organization and when we found it that's
how it is and you say hey we started
this vegan foundation and here are
principles here's our constitution is
what we're doing and where the dictators
because we're the only members yeah and
no a few other people whatever ten
people sign up or something so if you
admit that someone's in charge and if
you have principles down so can they
resign can they be replaced can you have
new elections and what qualifies people
you guys made another spoken you guys
know I'm an atheist you know I'm a
former scholar of Buddhism so I've also
been involved with religious and
secularists and atheists movements
movement is such a vague word but I
remember we had a really hilarious
controversy like that ah in one of
Canada's you know aunty real pro atheist
pro secularist political movements where
all those questions came home you know
can they really change the leader and
when there's money involved right
because all these things people donate
money so someone's donate a lot of money
do you really have the nerve to vote
against them and put someone else in
charge who didn't donate that money when
someone's devoted years their lives to
the cause can you really change your
leadership because there's a cost and
you're alienating your donors you maybe
bankrupting yourself to get rid of that
guy but on the other hand if you don't
get rid of them are you saying that the
leadership of your organization is
something that can be bought and sold
right very very hard questions I mean
the reason one of the reasons I talk
about this is most people don't know how
this works for a small-scale
organization you may be only know how it
works for organizations that are so huge
that they make it on to the nightly news
and we just had I mean if you're
Canadian you may have heard about this
we just had the most hilarious
controversy within the Green Party of
Canada they have their own semi
democratic processes and the Green Party
of Canada is just torn itself apart over
Israel of all things as if the Green
Party of Canada could possibly have any
influence over you know Israeli politics
so it's counterproductive in many
different ways uh but one you know the
party is now internally divided Green
Party can is tearing itself apart over
Israel's foreign policy over their war
with basically you know all of their
many of their neighboring states let's
not say all Israel Israel some very
solid peace treaties with many favorites
if you look into it you might be
surprised how funny allies is real has
in that region but anyway the ongoing
israel-palestine conflict and it's you
know it's linked to the ongoing conflict
in Syria etc sir so you know you have
the Green Party of Canada collapsing
internally disintegrating making enemies
out of their allies over an issue that
they can't possibly influence can't
possibly influence positively and at
rock bottom the question is do we really
care about democracy or not that's what
animates the whole thing right uh okay
so this is my first issue this this
issue will be decided in a boxing match
between myself and Jason Posey no in
Thailand coming all these issues are too
nuanced to be to be decided by vitac
Singh boxing match you know one of the
other issues that in its linked here
because it's linked to this issue of
leadership versus subtle anarchist
sentiments in in Jason's approach to
life Jason really got inspired by one of
the videos i made ask him about the
question of you know do you die for the
cause so in that video i was responding
to jason's ex-girlfriend hey Nia and I
was raising the point that hania said
she was thing about quitting YouTube
because put her life in danger now I
feel open a whole tangent here there's a
guy with a channel called don't
interrupt daddy and he recently lost his
job because of YouTube you know I might
as well just include that here i can i
can put a link to his his video on this
below but obviously the name of this
channel is a joke don't interrupt daddy
somebody made repeated phone calls to
his boss his employer alleging that this
vegan on youtube was dealing drugs the
employer didn't take it so seriously
but in terms of the protocol at whatever
his place employment was they did ask
him to take a drug test in response to
these allegations and he passed the drug
that he doesn't use drugs many people
would not I mean many people might be
casually using marijuana or something
but this guy's apparently entirely clean
so we did pass the drug test but
eventually his employer did fire him
because of these harassing phone calls
these allegations that came in uh it's
very sad from it's a short-term
challenging and what have you some there
are risks and I myself I am as you know
i'm currently in court in Thailand
because of the rest and because the
negative consequence for my life of
having people really defaming me on the
net D faming me and threatening me with
violence on the internet and now sadly
my main reason for starting that court
case was to challenge us all that do
better was to challenge the vegan
demi-monde to to move beyond you know
the violence and defamation and instead
what I've seen I mean in the same way
that several hundred people simply
imitated the worst aspects of during
writers act trying to get bits and
pieces of the same kind of fame during
read her gotten several hundred people
made channels imitating Jerry minor in
the same way now many many people are
imitating vegan cheetah are imitating
the drama mill and are imitating a genre
that's based on slander and defamation
slander has become a sport so exactly
what I was hoping I could minimize or
discourage has been at least in the
short term encouraged to keep people are
trying to get that same degree of Fame
or that same I don't know shred of money
money micro fame whatever going to take
off the jacket alone
yeah it's a good comment from soy there
soy says from us from a star into a
constellation that's the truth we've
seen this metastasize a word you rarely
hear spoken metastasize from a star into
a constellation alright so one of the
things Jason got inspired by was my
questioning are you down to die for the
cause because in that earlier video I
said in response to Pena yeah you know
what if my life's on the line that's not
going to stop me it doesn't disturb me
the thought that doing what I'm doing
right now on YouTube could lead to my
death that advocating veganism is worth
it for me you know I am down to die for
the cause I don't flinch you that at all
and I'll say about myself in terms of
the type of character I am what's much
scarier to me is the idea that I would
live a meaningless life right risking
death to lead a meaningful life to me
that's nothing new it ain't nothing new
it's never been for any cause and what
are we comparing veganism to you want to
compare veganism to the struggle for
independence in the history of any
country you know come on what are you
going to compare it to the struggle for
black civil rights which people very
frequently I think it's a really bad
comparison I think it's very misleading
comparison people will people risk their
lives for that any any struggle come on
this trouble to legalize marijuana
people that put in jail for that crap
you know sorry for me that's compared to
these other things just a bit of a joke
but fine fine you know I realized
they're people who feel passionately but
you criminalizing marijuana well they
were down to go to jail for that they
were down and die for the cause so you
know people risk their lives even for
that to have a political cause I mean we
live in a world where almost every cause
that takes itself seriously has people
who are down to die for it to me it's
not even a question I mean what the [ __ ]
you doing on YouTube talking about
veganism if you're not down dive the guy
you know I mean every sorry so to me
that that that social is we're low but
what's so interesting about veganism is
that you know the question isn't are you
down to die for the cause the question
is are you willing to live for the cause
and how do we live for the cause and I
know it may seem like I'm addressing
three completely unrelated issues in
these videos but to me they're crucially
related because in movements that have
one charismatic leader everyone knows
what it means to live for the cause you
can look at these totally cult-like
political leaders somebody like Joseph
Stalin and then for stalinists you could
say what does it mean to live for
communism it means they do whatever the
leader asks it means they're devoted
personally to that leader to his vision
his decisions no matter how bizarre and
explicable no matter how destructive you
know then no matter how many millions
people might get killed etc etc their
commitment to the cause to live for the
cause is tied very clearly to one
person's leadership all right when you
take that away when we're talking about
a cause that is not defined by anyone's
leadership right things get much more
interesting what does it mean to live
for veganism as a cause and in the last
two years I've seen that shaken up in
such a dynamic way because there were so
many people who believed who believed
wholeheartedly that what it meant to
live for veganism was to go to the gym
every day and ride your bicycle 100
kilometers to be lean and beautiful to
present an image of perfect health at
all times and for that lifestyle for
your beauty and your body to convince
others inspire others to adopt the
lifestyle and in the last two years I
have seen that conception of what it
means to live for veganism completely
fall apart um and veganism I mean it's
such a contrast to a utopian movement
even like communism but many many
movements want a utopia that can never
really exist in this world sorry camera
just wanted to focus it so I put my hand
out there with veganism it's funny
because everything we want to attain is
not utopian it is attainable it's
completely attainable
except for human nature right everyone
on earth could stop wearing leather
shoes tomorrow it's so easy except
they're human beings they don't care
except for indifference except for greed
except for avarice their lives would not
be made any more difficult whatsoever I
mean some people now you know you buy
shoes on the internet all you need to do
is move the mouse over and click on that
true instead of that one and when you
wear them there's no difference you know
there's no disadvantage the other day I
walked down to the train station here
and the train station here in conveying
has an enormous number of small
restaurants clustered around it and
every single one is selling chopped up
pieces of animals it's not exist so
hundreds of small restaurants Sun
shutters there's no vegan option
anywhere around there I wasn't hungry it
wasn't a problem for me i was just
looking out of interest and you know you
have to visualize in this one small
space there are the disembodied you know
chopped up pieces of thousands of
animals and somewhere right now there
are exactly that and there are thousands
of animals waiting to replace them
because tomorrow all those little pieces
of dead animals will be replaced with
thousands of new dead animals every day
and you know so somewhere there's this
huge area of grassland and what have you
that he says and it's it's attainable I
mean you know the idea that I would go
to that train station and not see a
single piece of beef and pork everyone
could be getting on the train with a
boxed lunch this basically it's there so
you can buy food before you get on the
train everyone could be eating tofu or
what have you I mean it's not utopian it
doesn't require leadership it doesn't
require any grandiose vision it doesn't
even require the kind of social
sacrifice involved with the Industrial
Revolution you know of all the
revolutions of all the uses of the word
revolution the industrial revolutions in
some ways the most instructive my
society was completely transformed by
the Industrial Revolution some societies
still are being transferred by terrible
cost you know it turned the sky black it
made
stars disappear I mean the air
unbreathable of me the water impossible
to drink it you know polluted the
landscape it transformed the world it
crippled men in factories in terrible
factory conditions it resulted in so
many children being born with birth
defects you know the dust revolution
whether you're looking the history of
England or frankly the history of China
the impacts of it are so terrible and to
make in the vegan revolution if you want
to call it that to revolutionize
societies with vegan insist on any of
those costs is of those tropics it
doesn't even change me or your
experience of the shoes you wear isn't
any different doesn't impact the new
with so you know it's tantalizing and
it's tortuous to live with that
possibility and then you ask yourself
you know what does it mean in that
context of lacking leadership of lacking
a coherent movement of lacking anything
for us to believe in a participate in to
support you know I already know the
petition I can sign I may be real with
you I there's no idea I can't join
pediped isn't really vegan there's
nothing for me to join there's nothing
remember I want to start my own
foundation there's nobody for me to obey
or adhere to we had a question a few
minutes ago but do I you know is there
anyone I idolized or look up to know
every book I read by a respected
academic on vegan or a respected
so-called political leader or
philosopher about veganism I have
nothing but contempt for feel like all
these people are morons I'm sorry that's
the truth you guys have heard me say it
you know I still got love for them in
some place love them or more on to other
hearts in the right place every every
time you guys have seen my recent book
reviews and what have you so for me that
question of what does it mean for to die
for the cause to be willing to die for
the cause that's really kind of a dead
end but the question of what does it
mean to live for the cause in this
context of lacking leadership like a
movement election Russian I think that's
tremendously meaningful and I think it's
something all of us are struggling to
come up with new answers to especially
in the wreckage of so many of our past
ideals having already
disintegrated imploded having already
been proven to be counterproductive
failures